content/tutorials/index.md, before:

---
title: Tutorials
template: tutorial-page.tmpl.html
---

Tutorials are a great way to learn to use PlayCanvas. You'll find both video tutorials and examples and articles for you here.

## Videos

You can find our complete collection of video tutorials on our [YouTube Channel](http://youtube.com/playcanvas).

## Articles

### Beginner

* [Basic Keyboard Input][keyboard_input]
* [Basic Mouse Input][mouse_input]
* [Basic Camera][basic_camera]
* [Basic Audio][basic_audio]
* [Manipulating Entities][manipulating_entities]

### Intermediate

* [Animation Blending][animation_blending]
* [More Cameras][more_cameras]
* [First Person Camera][first_person_camera]
* [Collision and Triggers][collision_and_triggers]

### Advanced

* [Programmatically Creating Entities][programmatically_creating]
* [FPS Character Controller][fps_character_controller]
* [Custom Shaders][custom_shaders]
* [Custom Post Effects][custom_posteffects]

[keyboard_input]: /tutorials/beginner/keyboard-input
[mouse_input]: /tutorials/beginner/mouse-input
[basic_camera]: /tutorials/beginner/basic-cameras
[basic_audio]: /tutorials/beginner/basic-audio
[manipulating_entities]: /tutorials/beginner/manipulating-entities

[animation_blending]: /tutorials/intermediate/animation-blending
[more_cameras]: /tutorials/intermediate/more-cameras
[first_person_camera]: /tutorials/intermediate/first-person-camera
[collision_and_triggers]: /tutorials/intermediate/collision-and-triggers

[fps_character_controller]: /tutorials/advanced/fps-controller
[programmatically_creating]: /tutorials/advanced/programmatically-creating
[custom_shaders]: /tutorials/advanced/custom-shaders
[custom_posteffects]: /tutorials/advanced/custom-posteffect

Commit message:

Broken links fixed, minor additions
Added notice about disabling cache, added link to new PlayCanvas
tutorial packs page

content/tutorials/index.md, after:

---
title: Tutorials
template: tutorial-page.tmpl.html
---

Tutorials are a great way to learn to use PlayCanvas. You'll find both video tutorials and examples and articles for you here.

## Videos

You can find our complete collection of video tutorials on our [YouTube Channel](http://youtube.com/playcanvas).

## Articles

The resources for all tutorials listed below can be found on our [PlayCanvas tutorials page](https://playcanvas.com/playcanvas/tutorials). Note that you must be logged in to the PlayCanvas site to access them.

### Beginner

* [Basic Keyboard Input][keyboard_input]
* [Basic Mouse Input][mouse_input]
* [Basic Camera][basic_camera]
* [Basic Audio][basic_audio]
* [Manipulating Entities][manipulating_entities]

### Intermediate

* [Animation Blending][animation_blending]
* [More Cameras][more_cameras]
* [First Person Camera][first_person_camera]
* [Collision and Triggers][collision_and_triggers]

### Advanced

* [Programmatically Creating Entities][programmatically_creating]
* [FPS Character Controller][fps_character_controller]
* [Custom Shaders][custom_shaders]
* [Custom Post Effects][custom_posteffects]

[keyboard_input]: /tutorials/beginner/keyboard-input
[mouse_input]: /tutorials/beginner/mouse-input
[basic_camera]: /tutorials/beginner/basic-cameras
[basic_audio]: /tutorials/beginner/basic-audio
[manipulating_entities]: /tutorials/beginner/manipulating-entities

[animation_blending]: /tutorials/intermediate/animation-blending
[more_cameras]: /tutorials/intermediate/more-cameras
[first_person_camera]: /tutorials/intermediate/first-person-camera
[collision_and_triggers]: /tutorials/intermediate/collision-and-triggers

[fps_character_controller]: /tutorials/advanced/fps-controller
[programmatically_creating]: /tutorials/advanced/programmatically-creating
[custom_shaders]: /tutorials/advanced/custom-shaders
[custom_posteffects]: /tutorials/advanced/custom-posteffect
