content/en/user-manual/organizations/creating-organizations.md, before:

---
title: Creating Organizations
template: usermanual-page.tmpl.html
position: 2
---

There are various ways to create an Organization. Any organizations you are part of will appear next to your name on your profile like so:

![profile_orgs][4]

### Create from the dropdown menu

The first way is to click on NEW ORGANIZATION in the top-right dropdown menu:

![dropdown][1]

This will bring up the following popup:

<img src="/images/user-manual/orgs/new_org_popup.png" alt="Organization popup" style="border: 1px solid #ccc">

Enter the name for the Organization and a username. The default e-mail address is your own but you can change it to a different one.

Click CREATE and that will take you to the [profile][2] page of the Organization.

### Convert your account

Another way to create an Organization is to convert your user account to an Organization. You can do this by clicking CONVERT in your [account][3] page.

<img src="/images/user-manual/orgs/convert.png" alt="Organization popup" style="border: 1px solid #ccc">

This will bring up the following popup:

<img src="/images/user-manual/orgs/convert-popup.png" alt="Convert popup" style="border: 1px solid #ccc">

Converting your user account into an Organization will mean that you will no longer be able to log in with this user account. For that reason you need to specify an owner for the new Organization - make sure you can log in with the new owner's account.

If you have subscribed for a paid plan, that plan will be cancelled unless you choose to subscribe to an Organization plan, that is offered in the popup. The number of seats to purchase will be calculated for you automatically based on the number of users in your existing private projects.

After you convert your account, you will be logged out. Then log back in with the new owner's account and you will be able to access the converted account and all its projects.


[1]: /images/user-manual/orgs/dropdown.png "New Organization menu option"
[2]: /user-manual/profile
[3]: /user-manual/profile/account
[4]: /images/user-manual/orgs/organizations.png "Organizations"

Commit message:

Change username to ID in new organization popup

content/en/user-manual/organizations/creating-organizations.md, after:

---
title: Creating Organizations
template: usermanual-page.tmpl.html
position: 2
---

There are various ways to create an Organization. Any organizations you are part of will appear next to your name on your profile like so:

![profile_orgs][4]

### Create from the dropdown menu

The first way is to click on NEW ORGANIZATION in the top-right dropdown menu:

![dropdown][1]

This will bring up the following popup:

<img src="/images/user-manual/orgs/new_org_popup.png" alt="Organization popup" style="border: 1px solid #ccc">

Enter the name for the Organization and an Organization ID which is a string with only alphanumeric characters and dashes allowed. The default e-mail address is your own but you can change it to a different one.

Click CREATE and that will take you to the [profile][2] page of the Organization.

### Convert your account

Another way to create an Organization is to convert your user account to an Organization. You can do this by clicking CONVERT in your [account][3] page.

<img src="/images/user-manual/orgs/convert.png" alt="Organization popup" style="border: 1px solid #ccc">

This will bring up the following popup:

<img src="/images/user-manual/orgs/convert-popup.png" alt="Convert popup" style="border: 1px solid #ccc">

Converting your user account into an Organization will mean that you will no longer be able to log in with this user account. For that reason you need to specify an owner for the new Organization - make sure you can log in with the new owner's account.

If you have subscribed for a paid plan, that plan will be cancelled unless you choose to subscribe to an Organization plan, that is offered in the popup. The number of seats to purchase will be calculated for you automatically based on the number of users in your existing private projects.

After you convert your account, you will be logged out. Then log back in with the new owner's account and you will be able to access the converted account and all its projects.


[1]: /images/user-manual/orgs/dropdown.png "New Organization menu option"
[2]: /user-manual/profile
[3]: /user-manual/profile/account
[4]: /images/user-manual/orgs/organizations.png "Organizations"
