content/tutorials/advanced/custom-shaders.md, before:

---
title: Custom Shaders
template: tutorial-page.tmpl.html
position: 3
---

<iframe src="http://apps.playcanvas.com/playcanvas/tutorials/custom_shaders?overlay=false" ></iframe>

*This tutorial uses a custom shader on a material to create a dissolve effect in GLSL*

When you import your 3D models into PlayCanvas by default they will use a Phong Material. This is a versatile material type that can cover a lot of your rendering needs. It's especially useful as it maps well to the materials that you create in 3D creation programs.

However, you will often want to perform special effects or special cases for your materials. To do this you will need to write a custom shader.

**GLSL Shader Example**

WebGL uses GLSL (GL Shader Language) to write shaders that can be run across all browsers. In PlayCanvas this code is assigned to a [Shader Definition][shader_def] and then used in the constructor to make a new `pc.fw.Shader`.

~~~javascript~~~
var shaderDefinition = {
    attributes: {
        aPosition: pc.gfx.SEMANTIC_POSITION,
        aUv0: pc.gfx.SEMANTIC_TEXCOORD0
    },
    vshader: [
        "attribute vec3 aPosition;",
        "attribute vec2 aUv0;",
        "",
        "uniform mat4 matrix_model;",
        "uniform mat4 matrix_viewProjection;",
        "",
        "varying vec2 vUv0;",
        "",
        "void main(void)",
        "{",
        "    vUv0 = aUv0;",
        "    gl_Position = matrix_viewProjection * matrix_model * vec4(aPosition, 1.0);",
        "}"
    ].join("\n"),
    fshader: [
        "precision " + gd.precision + " float;",
        "",
        "varying vec2 vUv0;",
        "",
        "uniform sampler2D uDiffuseMap;",
        "uniform sampler2D uHeightMap;",
        "uniform float uTime;",
        "",
        "void main(void)",
        "{",
        "    float height = texture2D(uHeightMap, vUv0).r;",
        "    vec4 color = texture2D(uDiffuseMap, vUv0);",
        "    if (height < uTime) {",
        "      discard;",
        "    }",
        "    if (height < (uTime+0.04)) {",
        "      color = vec4(0, 0.2, 1, 1.0);",
        "    }",
        "    gl_FragColor = color;",
        "}"
    ].join("\n")
};
~~~

The shader definition contains three sections. In `attributes` you must specify the variable names and the value of attributes that will be defined for each Vertex that your vertex shader is executed for. These values are later declared in your vertex shader as and `attribute`.

The Vertex Shader code is supplied as a string in the `vshader` property and the Fragment Shader is supplied as a string in the 'fshader' property.

Above is the shader definition used to make the dissoving effcet. Notice that in order to make the GLSL code readable in the script file, we use this trick of creating a list of strings and calling `.join("\n")` to create a string.

Aside from attributes there are two other special types of variable in the GLSL shaders: `varying` and `uniform`

**GLSL `varying` variables**

A variable that is declared **varying** will be set in the vertex shader, but used in the fragment shader. It's a way of passing data on from the first program to the second.

**GLSL `uniform` variables**

A variable declared **`uniform`** will be declared in both vertex and fragment shaders. The value of this variable must be passed into the shader from the main application. For example, the position of a light in your scene.

**Creating Materials**

~~~javascript~~~
    // Create the shader from the definition
    this.shader = new pc.gfx.Shader(gd, shaderDefinition);

    // Create a new material and set the shader
    this.material = new pc.scene.Material();
    this.material.setShader(this.shader);

    // Set the initial parameters
    this.material.setParameter('uTime', 0);
    this.material.setParameter('uDiffuseMap', this.diffuseTexture);

    // Replace the material on the model with our new material
    model.meshInstances[0].material = this.material;
~~~

Once we've got the shader definition we create a new Shader and a new Material and pass the shader onto the material using `setShader()`. The uniforms are then set using the `setParameter()` method. Finally we are replacing the original material on the model with the new material we've created. Notice, that each mesh in a model has it's own material. So if your model has more than one mesh, you may need to set the material onto more than once.

*You can (and should) use the same material on more than one mesh.*

**Using a texture in a new Material**

~~~javascript~~~
    // Get the "clouds" height map from the assets and set the material to use it
    var asset = context.assets.find("clouds");
    if (asset) {
        context.assets.load(asset).then(function (results) {
            this.heightMap = results[0];
            this.material.setParameter('uHeightMap', this.heightMap);

        }.bind(this));
    }
~~~

The effect demonstrated in this tutorial is achieved using a height map texture. We access the texture from the asset registry using the code above. When it's loaded we can set the uniform `uHeightMap` to be the `pc.gfx.Texture` object.

**Updating uniforms**

~~~javascript~~~
// Called every frame, dt is time in seconds since last update
update: function (dt) {
    this.time += dt;

    // Bounce value of t 0->1->0
    var t = (this.time % 2);
    if (t > 1) {
        t = 1 - (t - 1);
    }

    // Update the time value in the material
    this.material.setParameter('uTime', t);
}
~~~

To achieve the disappearing effect we use the height map value as a threshold, and we increase the threshold over time. In the update method above we bounce the value of `t` between 0 and 1 and we set this as the `uTime` uniform.

In our shader if the value of the heightmap on a pixel is less than the value time value we don't draw the pixel. In addition at values that are close to the threshold, we draw the pixel in blue to display a nice 'edge' to the effect.

**Complete listing**

~~~javascript~~~
pc.script.create('custom_shader', function (context) {
    // Creates a new Custom_shader instance
    var Custom_shader = function (entity) {
        this.entity = entity;

        this.time = 0;
        this.heightMap = null;
        this.shader = null;
    };


    Custom_shader.prototype = {
        // Called once after all resources are loaded and before the first update
        initialize: function () {
            var model = this.entity.model.model;
            var gd = context.graphicsDevice;

            // Save the diffuse map from the original material before we replace it.
            this.diffuseTexture = model.meshInstances[0].material.diffuseMap;

            // A shader definition used to create a new shader.
            var shaderDefinition = {
                attributes: {
                    aPosition: pc.gfx.SEMANTIC_POSITION,
                    aUv0: pc.gfx.SEMANTIC_TEXCOORD0
                },
                vshader: [
                    "attribute vec3 aPosition;",
                    "attribute vec2 aUv0;",
                    "",
                    "uniform mat4 matrix_model;",
                    "uniform mat4 matrix_viewProjection;",
                    "",
                    "varying vec2 vUv0;",
                    "",
                    "void main(void)",
                    "{",
                    "    vUv0 = aUv0;",
                    "    gl_Position = matrix_viewProjection * matrix_model * vec4(aPosition, 1.0);",
                    "}"
                ].join("\n"),
                fshader: [
                    "precision " + gd.precision + " float;",
                    "",
                    "varying vec2 vUv0;",
                    "",
                    "uniform sampler2D uDiffuseMap;",
                    "uniform sampler2D uHeightMap;",
                    "uniform float uTime;",
                    "",
                    "void main(void)",
                    "{",
                    "    float height = texture2D(uHeightMap, vUv0).r;",
                    "    vec4 color = texture2D(uDiffuseMap, vUv0);",
                    "    if (height < uTime) {",
                    "      discard;",
                    "    }",
                    "    if (height < (uTime+0.04)) {",
                    "      color = vec4(0, 0.2, 1, 1.0);",
                    "    }",
                    "    gl_FragColor = color;",
                    "}"
                ].join("\n")
            };

            // Create the shader from the definition
            this.shader = new pc.gfx.Shader(gd, shaderDefinition);

            // Create a new material and set the shader
            this.material = new pc.scene.Material();
            this.material.setShader(this.shader);

            // Set the initial parameters
            this.material.setParameter('uTime', 0);
            this.material.setParameter('uDiffuseMap', this.diffuseTexture);

            // Replace the material on the model with our new material
            model.meshInstances[0].material = this.material;


            // Get the "clouds" height map from the assets and set the material to use it
            var asset = context.assets.find("clouds");
            if (asset) {
                context.assets.load(asset).then(function (results) {
                    this.heightMap = results[0];
                    this.material.setParameter('uHeightMap', this.heightMap);

                }.bind(this));
            }
        },

        // Called every frame, dt is time in seconds since last update
        update: function (dt) {
            this.time += dt;

            // Bounce value of t 0->1->0
            var t = (this.time % 2);
            if (t > 1) {
                t = 1 - (t - 1);
            }

            // Update the time value in the material
            this.material.setParameter('uTime', t);
        }
    };

    return Custom_shader;
});
~~~

Here is the complete script. Attach this to an Entity with a model component to see it in action. *Note, it only works on a model with a single mesh.* It's left as an exercise to the reader to implement a shader which performs this dissolve effect on a model with many meshes and materials.


[shader_def]: http://developer.playcanvas.com/engine/api/stable/symbols/pc.gfx.Shader.html

Commit message:

Update the custom shaders tutorial with comments

content/tutorials/advanced/custom-shaders.md, after:

---
title: Custom Shaders
template: tutorial-page.tmpl.html
position: 3
---

<iframe src="http://apps.playcanvas.com/playcanvas/tutorials/custom_shaders?overlay=false" ></iframe>

*This tutorial uses a custom shader on a material to create a dissolve effect in GLSL*

When you import your 3D models into PlayCanvas by default they will use a Phong Material. This is a versatile material type that can cover a lot of your rendering needs. It's especially useful as it maps well to the materials that you create in 3D creation programs.

However, you will often want to perform special effects or special cases for your materials. To do this you will need to write a custom shader.

**GLSL Shader Example**

WebGL uses GLSL (GL Shader Language) to write shaders that can be run across all browsers. In PlayCanvas this code is assigned to a [Shader Definition][shader_def] and then used in the constructor to make a new `pc.fw.Shader`.

~~~javascript~~~
var shaderDefinition = {
    // Define the attributes variables that pull data from vertex buffers. [http://developer.playcanvas.com/engine/api/stable/symbols/pc.gfx.html]
    attributes: {
        aPosition: pc.gfx.SEMANTIC_POSITION, // vertex position
        aUv0: pc.gfx.SEMANTIC_TEXCOORD0 // UV texture co-ordinate
    },
    vshader: [
        // attributes are supplied to vertex shaders from vertex buffers
        // aPosition is the current vertex position
        // aUv0 is the UV co-ordinate at the current vertex
        "attribute vec3 aPosition;",
        "attribute vec2 aUv0;",
        "",
        // uniforms are supplied to both vertex and fragment shaders
        // matrix_model is the Model Matrix
        // matrix_viewProjection is the View Projection Matrix
        "uniform mat4 matrix_model;",
        "uniform mat4 matrix_viewProjection;",
        "",
        // varyings are variables that are set in the vertex and used in the fragment shader
        // vUv0 is the UV co-ordinate at the current vertex
        "varying vec2 vUv0;",
        "",
        // The main function in the vertex shader is called once for every vertex
        "void main(void)",
        "{",
        "    vUv0 = aUv0;", // pass the UV co-ordinate on to the fragment shader
        "    gl_Position = matrix_viewProjection * matrix_model * vec4(aPosition, 1.0);", // Transform the vertex into screen space
        "}"
    ].join("\n"),
    fshader: [
        "precision " + gd.precision + " float;",
        "",
        // This is the UV co-ordinate from the vertex shader
        "varying vec2 vUv0;",
        "",
        // These uniforms are set in the main program
        // The diffuse map is the color texture that is applied to the model
        "uniform sampler2D uDiffuseMap;",
        // The height map is the cloud texture that we're using for the special effect
        "uniform sampler2D uHeightMap;",
        // This is an incrementing/decrementing value between 0-2
        "uniform float uTime;",
        "",
        // The main function in the fragment shader is called once for every pixel that could be rendered using this shader
        "void main(void)",
        "{",
        "    vec4 height = texture2D(uHeightMap, vUv0);", // Use the texture2D function to pull the color out of the height map at this pixel.
        "    float h = height.r;", // The height map is greyscale so we can use the 'red' value to get a value between 0-1 at this pixel.
        "    vec4 color = texture2D(uDiffuseMap, vUv0);", // Get the color from the diffuse texture at this pixel
        "    if (h < uTime) {",
        "      discard;", // When the heightmap pixel is less than the time value skip the rendering of this pixel.
        "    }",
        "    if (h < (uTime + 0.04)) {",
        "      color = vec4(0, 0.2, 1, 1.0);", // This adds an orange border close to the areas where we discard the pixel
        "    }",
        "    gl_FragColor = color;", // Otherwise we set the pixel to be the one from the diffuse texture.
        "}"
    ].join("\n")
};
~~~

The shader definition contains three sections. In `attributes` you must specify the variable names and the value of attributes that will be defined for each Vertex that your vertex shader is executed for. These values are later declared in your vertex shader as and `attribute`.

The Vertex Shader code is supplied as a string in the `vshader` property and the Fragment Shader is supplied as a string in the 'fshader' property.

Above is the shader definition used to make the dissoving effcet. Notice that in order to make the GLSL code readable in the script file, we use this trick of creating a list of strings and calling `.join("\n")` to create a string.

Aside from attributes there are two other special types of variable in the GLSL shaders: `varying` and `uniform`

**GLSL `varying` variables**

A variable that is declared **varying** will be set in the vertex shader, but used in the fragment shader. It's a way of passing data on from the first program to the second.

**GLSL `uniform` variables**

A variable declared **`uniform`** will be declared in both vertex and fragment shaders. The value of this variable must be passed into the shader from the main application. For example, the position of a light in your scene.

**Creating Materials**

~~~javascript~~~
    // Create the shader from the definition
    this.shader = new pc.gfx.Shader(gd, shaderDefinition);

    // Create a new material and set the shader
    this.material = new pc.scene.Material();
    this.material.setShader(this.shader);

    // Set the initial parameters
    this.material.setParameter('uTime', 0);
    this.material.setParameter('uDiffuseMap', this.diffuseTexture);

    // Replace the material on the model with our new material
    model.meshInstances[0].material = this.material;
~~~

Once we've got the shader definition we create a new Shader and a new Material and pass the shader onto the material using `setShader()`. The uniforms are then set using the `setParameter()` method. Finally we are replacing the original material on the model with the new material we've created. Notice, that each mesh in a model has it's own material. So if your model has more than one mesh, you may need to set the material onto more than once.

*You can (and should) use the same material on more than one mesh.*

**Using a texture in a new Material**

~~~javascript~~~
    // Get the "clouds" height map from the assets and set the material to use it
    var asset = context.assets.find("clouds");
    if (asset) {
        context.assets.load(asset).then(function (results) {
            this.heightMap = results[0];
            this.material.setParameter('uHeightMap', this.heightMap);

        }.bind(this));
    }
~~~

The effect demonstrated in this tutorial is achieved using a height map texture. We access the texture from the asset registry using the code above. When it's loaded we can set the uniform `uHeightMap` to be the `pc.gfx.Texture` object.

**Updating uniforms**

~~~javascript~~~
// Called every frame, dt is time in seconds since last update
update: function (dt) {
    this.time += dt;

    // Bounce value of t 0->1->0
    var t = (this.time % 2);
    if (t > 1) {
        t = 1 - (t - 1);
    }

    // Update the time value in the material
    this.material.setParameter('uTime', t);
}
~~~

To achieve the disappearing effect we use the height map value as a threshold, and we increase the threshold over time. In the update method above we bounce the value of `t` between 0 and 1 and we set this as the `uTime` uniform.

In our shader if the value of the heightmap on a pixel is less than the value time value we don't draw the pixel. In addition at values that are close to the threshold, we draw the pixel in blue to display a nice 'edge' to the effect.

**Complete listing**

~~~javascript~~~
pc.script.create('custom_shader', function (context) {
    // Creates a new Custom_shader instance
    var Custom_shader = function (entity) {
        this.entity = entity;

        this.time = 0;
        this.heightMap = null;
        this.shader = null;
    };


    Custom_shader.prototype = {
        // Called once after all resources are loaded and before the first update
        initialize: function () {
            var model = this.entity.model.model;
            var gd = context.graphicsDevice;

            // Save the diffuse map from the original material before we replace it.
            this.diffuseTexture = model.meshInstances[0].material.diffuseMap;

            // A shader definition used to create a new shader.
            var shaderDefinition = {
                attributes: {
                    aPosition: pc.gfx.SEMANTIC_POSITION,
                    aUv0: pc.gfx.SEMANTIC_TEXCOORD0
                },
                vshader: [
                    "attribute vec3 aPosition;",
                    "attribute vec2 aUv0;",
                    "",
                    "uniform mat4 matrix_model;",
                    "uniform mat4 matrix_viewProjection;",
                    "",
                    "varying vec2 vUv0;",
                    "",
                    "void main(void)",
                    "{",
                    "    vUv0 = aUv0;",
                    "    gl_Position = matrix_viewProjection * matrix_model * vec4(aPosition, 1.0);",
                    "}"
                ].join("\n"),
                fshader: [
                    "precision " + gd.precision + " float;",
                    "",
                    "varying vec2 vUv0;",
                    "",
                    "uniform sampler2D uDiffuseMap;",
                    "uniform sampler2D uHeightMap;",
                    "uniform float uTime;",
                    "",
                    "void main(void)",
                    "{",
                    "    float height = texture2D(uHeightMap, vUv0).r;",
                    "    vec4 color = texture2D(uDiffuseMap, vUv0);",
                    "    if (height < uTime) {",
                    "      discard;",
                    "    }",
                    "    if (height < (uTime+0.04)) {",
                    "      color = vec4(0, 0.2, 1, 1.0);",
                    "    }",
                    "    gl_FragColor = color;",
                    "}"
                ].join("\n")
            };

            // Create the shader from the definition
            this.shader = new pc.gfx.Shader(gd, shaderDefinition);

            // Create a new material and set the shader
            this.material = new pc.scene.Material();
            this.material.setShader(this.shader);

            // Set the initial parameters
            this.material.setParameter('uTime', 0);
            this.material.setParameter('uDiffuseMap', this.diffuseTexture);

            // Replace the material on the model with our new material
            model.meshInstances[0].material = this.material;


            // Get the "clouds" height map from the assets and set the material to use it
            var asset = context.assets.find("clouds");
            if (asset) {
                context.assets.load(asset).then(function (results) {
                    this.heightMap = results[0];
                    this.material.setParameter('uHeightMap', this.heightMap);

                }.bind(this));
            }
        },

        // Called every frame, dt is time in seconds since last update
        update: function (dt) {
            this.time += dt;

            // Bounce value of t 0->1->0
            var t = (this.time % 2);
            if (t > 1) {
                t = 1 - (t - 1);
            }

            // Update the time value in the material
            this.material.setParameter('uTime', t);
        }
    };

    return Custom_shader;
});
~~~

Here is the complete script. Attach this to an Entity with a model component to see it in action. *Note, it only works on a model with a single mesh.* It's left as an exercise to the reader to implement a shader which performs this dissolve effect on a model with many meshes and materials.


[shader_def]: http://developer.playcanvas.com/engine/api/stable/symbols/pc.gfx.Shader.html
