content/en/user-manual/scripting/creating-new.md, before:

---
title: Creating and attaching scripts
template: page.tmpl.html
position: 1
---

## Attaching a script to an Entity

<img src="/images/user-manual/components/component-script.jpg" style="width: 300px; float: right; padding: 20px; padding-top: 0px;"/>

Script Components are attached to Entities in the same way as all other Components using the *Add Component* button in the Entity inspector.

Once you have added a Script Component you can specify the URLs of the javascript files to load. The script component has a field named URL into which you can add paths to your scripts or other javascript libraries. Just type the URL of your script and press Enter. You can also select an existing script from the Asssets Panel and drag & drop it in here. Or just type a name into the URL box and press Enter to create a new script, then click the name to open.

The paths you supply for the scripts are relative your Local Server or Code Repository, e.g. `directory/script.js` see the [scripting workflow][2] page for details on how to set these up.

If you want to load general purpose javascript libraries rather than a PlayCanvas Script, you can specify their URL here.

If the javascript library is included on your Local Server or Code Repository this should be a relative URL

~~~sh~~~
directory/javascript_library.js
~~~

If the javascript library is hosted on a remote server you can specify a fully qualified URL.

~~~sh~~~
http://example.com/javascript_library.js
~~~

To specify multiple scripts for a single component, add one URL per line.

If you are using the PlayCanvas code repository to store your code, you can edit code in the PlayCanvas code editor, click a script's name below the URL input box, or in the Script Explorer to launch the editor.

<div class="alert alert-info">
If you are using Github or Bitbucket you can not edit you scripts in PlayCanvas, you must make your commits through your source control system.
</div>

The order in which you add your scripts on a Script Component is the order in which the scripts are going to be initialized and updated. If you want to change the order of a script, click on the Up - Down arrows next to the Script's title. To remove a script click on the X button.

[2]: /user-manual/scripting/workflow
[3]: /images/platform/component_script.png "Add urls of scripts to the script component"

Commit message:

Update creating-new scripts page Update images in many tutorials (removing old designer!!!)

content/en/user-manual/scripting/creating-new.md, after:

---
title: Creating and attaching scripts
template: page.tmpl.html
position: 1
---

## Creating a new script

To create a new script use the Asset Panel and select New Script

<img src="/images/user-manual/new_script.jpg" style="width: 300px; float: right; padding: 20px; padding-top: 0px;"/>

## Attaching a script to an Entity

<img src="/images/user-manual/components/component-script.jpg" style="width: 300px; float: right; padding: 20px; padding-top: 0px;"/>

Script Components are attached to Entities in the same way as all other Components using the *Add Component* button in the Entity inspector.

Once you have added a Script Component you can specify which javascript files to load. Use the Add Script button to pick scripts from your asset panel. Or drag and drop a script from the asset panel onto the component.

If you are using the PlayCanvas code repository to store your code, you can edit code in the PlayCanvas code editor, click a script's name below the URL input box.

<div class="alert alert-info">
If you are using Github or Bitbucket you can not edit you scripts in PlayCanvas, you must make your commits through your source control system.
</div>

A script component can load multiple script files, just add multiple scripts to the component. The order in which you add your scripts on a Script Component is the order in which the scripts are going to be initialized and updated. If you want to change the order of a script, click on the Up - Down arrows next to the Script's title. To remove a script click on the X button.

[2]: /user-manual/scripting/workflow
[3]: /images/platform/component_script.png "Add urls of scripts to the script component"
