content/zh/user-manual/profile/projects.md, before:

---
title: 项目
template: usermanual-page.tmpl.html
position: 2
---

项目卡片中将会用缩略信息的方式罗列你最近创建或参与的项目。

![projects_page][1]

## 创建新项目

点击右上角的 New 按钮创建一个新的项目

## 删除项目

点击项目右侧的向下箭头展开菜单，选择移除项目选项。

## 解锁项目

点击项目旁边的箭头，并选择解锁以解锁锁定*项目*。解锁项目依赖于该项目所有者的订阅类型。如果用户将一个个人计划的项目锁定，解锁装置会把项目中其它的免费用户删除(因为个人计划要求所有用户都订阅)。否则解锁项目表示使其公开。

如果你有一个组织账户，另一种方式解锁项目的方式是通过购买更多的项目席位，直到你不再打你的座位限制。

## 导出项目

如果你拥有的是非盈利项目，你可以以 zip 压缩包的形式导出和下载你的整个工程，随后再在新项目中导入该 zip 包。你也可以通过这个方式来进行本地项目备份。

点击项目右侧的向下箭头展开菜单，选择导出。

## 导入项目

如果你拥有的是非盈利项目，你同样也可以以 zip 压缩包的方式直接引入整个项目。这个 zip 项目必须是由前文所提的导出方式所产生，否则将不会被正确解析。

点击项目右侧的向下箭头展开菜单，选择导入。

## 转让工程所有权

如果你希望把工程的所有权转让，点击工程边的箭头然后再点击转让所有权。一个弹窗会弹出并要求你输入被转让者的用户名。输入用户名后点击FIND寻找按键或直接按下回车键。转让完毕。

其他用户将需要接受您的要求转移的项目。传送请求将出现在其项目列表的顶部。如果用户接受了请求，那么转让就完成了，除了新主人的所有团队成员都会从项目中删除。

[1]: /images/user-manual/profile/profile.png "项目"

Commit message:

Update localization (#314)
* Update localization

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Add newline after header section

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

* Update from Transifex again

content/zh/user-manual/profile/projects.md, after:

---
title: 项目
template: usermanual-page.tmpl.html
position: 2
---

项目卡片中将会用缩略信息的方式罗列你最近创建或参与的项目。

![projects_page][1]

## 创建新项目

点击右上角的 New 按钮创建一个新的项目

## 删除项目

点击项目右侧的向下箭头展开菜单，选择移除项目选项。

## 解锁项目

点击项目旁边的箭头，并选择解锁以解锁锁定*项目*。解锁项目依赖于该项目所有者的订阅类型。如果用户将一个个人计划的项目锁定，解锁装置会把项目中其它的免费用户删除(因为个人计划要求所有用户都订阅)。否则解锁项目表示使其公开。

如果你有一个组织账户，另一种方式解锁项目的方式是通过购买更多的项目席位，直到你不再打你的座位限制。

## Export Project Archive

![export-archive][2]

You can export a .zip archive of your project to keep an offline backup. You can later choose to import that .zip archive as a new project.

点击项目右侧的向下箭头展开菜单，选择导出。

## Import Project Archive

![import-archive][3]

You can import a .zip archive that contains an export project. That .zip file must be created using the Export mechanism described above.

点击项目右侧的向下箭头展开菜单，选择导入。

## 转让工程所有权

If you wish to transfer the ownership of a project to another user click on the arrow next to a project and then click Transfer Ownership.

![transfer-ownership-menu][4]

A pop up will appear asking you to enter the username of the user or organization you wish to transfer ownership to.

![transfer-ownership-dialog][5]

Enter the username and click FIND or press Enter. Then click TRANSFER.

The other user will need to accept your request to transfer the Project. The transfer request will appear on the top of the other user's project list.

![transfer-ownership-accept][6]

If the user accepts the request then the transfer will be completed and all team members apart from the new owner will be removed from the Project.

[1]: /images/user-manual/profile/profile.png "Projects"
[2]: /images/user-manual/profile/projects/export-archive-button.jpg
[3]: /images/user-manual/profile/projects/import-archive-button.jpg
[4]: /images/user-manual/profile/projects/transfer-ownership-menu.png
[5]: /images/user-manual/profile/projects/transfer-ownership-dialog.png
[6]: /images/user-manual/profile/projects/transfer-ownership-accept.png
