content/ru/tutorials/legacy/beginner/keyboard-input.md, before:

---
title: Основы ввода с клавиатуры
template: tutorial-page-legacy.tmpl.html
position: 1
---

<iframe src="http://apps.playcanvas.com/playcanvas/tutorials/input_keyboard?overlay=false"></iframe>

*Нажмите на окно с приложением для фокусировки, потом на клавиатуре стрелка влево, стрелка вправо и пробел для вращения куба. Нажмите и отпустите клавишу 'a' для смены цвета.

Ввод с клавиатуры в PlayCanvas предоставляется объектом 'pc.Keyboard'.
Объект клавиатуры предоставляет простой интерфейс для основных операций, таких как: клавиша нажата однократно или клавиша удерживается. Этот объект также исключает различные кросс-браузерные проблемы по обработке кодов клавиш.

Посмотрите на сцену обработки ввода с клавиатуры в [уроке][1]. Здесь полный код урока:

~~~javascript~~~
pc.script.create("keyboard_handler", function (app) {

    var KeyboardHandler = function (entity) {
        this.entity = entity;
    };

    KeyboardHandler.prototype = {
        initialize: function () {
            // Use on() to listen for events on the keyboard device.
            // Arguments are:
            // 1) The event name to listen for
            // 2) The callback function to call when the event fires
            // 3) (optional) The value to use for 'this' in the callback function
            app.keyboard.on(pc.EVENT_KEYDOWN, this.onKeyDown, this);
            app.keyboard.on(pc.EVENT_KEYUP, this.onKeyUp, this);

            this.redMaterial = app.assets.find("Red", pc.asset.ASSET_MATERIAL);
            this.whiteMaterial = app.assets.find("White", pc.asset.ASSET_MATERIAL);
        },

        update: function (dt) {
            /*
             * Notice in the demo that pressing and holding the arrow keys doesn't
             * make the block spin. wasPressed() is used to detect a
             * keypress that occurred since the last frame and will only be
             * called once even if the key is held down.
             */
            var angle = 0;
            if (app.keyboard.wasPressed(pc.KEY_LEFT)) {
                angle = -5;
            } else if (app.keyboard.wasPressed(pc.KEY_RIGHT)) {
                angle = 5;
            }

            /*
             * Notice that pressing and holding the space bar makes the block
             * continuously spin. isPressed() is used to detected if a
             * key is down right now. So it will be true every frame as long as
             * the key is still pressed.
             */
            if (app.keyboard.isPressed(pc.KEY_SPACE)) {
                angle = 1;
            }

            // Update the spinning cube
            this.entity.rotateLocal(0, angle, 0);
        },

        /*
        * Event handler called when key is pressed
        */
        onKeyDown: function (event) {
            // Check event.key to detect which key has been pressed
            if (event.key === pc.KEY_A) {
                this.entity.model.materialAsset = this.redMaterial;
            }

            // When the space bar is pressed this scrolls the window.
            // Calling preventDefault() on the original browser event stops this.
            event.event.preventDefault();
        },

        /*
        * Event handler called when key is released
        */
        onKeyUp: function (event) {
            // Check event.key to detect which key has been pressed
            if (event.key === pc.KEY_A) {
                this.entity.model.materialAsset = this.whiteMaterial;
            }
        },
    };

    return KeyboardHandler;
});
~~~

Есть два пути обнаружения ввода с клавиатуры. Первый делается в методе обновления ваших скриптов. Используйте `isPressed()` и`wasPressed()` и проверяйте нажата ли клавиша сейчас, или была нажата. Второй использует события отвечающие нажата или отпущена кнопка, как только это происходит.

## `isPressed` против `wasPressed`

В демо выше Вы можете видеть разницу в поведении между `isPressed()` и `wasPressed()`.

Когда вы нажимаете и удерживаете левую или правую стрелку мыши, куб вращается на 5&deg; один раз. Всё потому, что `wasPressed()` возвращает истину для кадра сразу после того, как клавиша была нажата.

Если Вы нажимаете и удерживаете пробел, можете увидеть, что куб вращается непрерывно на 1&deg; каждый кадр. Потому как  `isPressed()` возвращает истину для каждого кадра, в котором нажата кнопка.

### `isPressed(клавиша)`

`isPressed(клавиша)` проверяет если клавиша в данный момент нажата и возвращает истину, если это так. Истина возвращается для каждого кадра, пока нажата кнопка.

### `wasPressed(клавиша)`

`wasPressed(клавиша)` смотрит, если клавиша была нажата *с момента последнего кадра*. `wasPressed()` возвратит истину однажды для единичного нажатия на клавишу.

## События

Второй метод обращения с нажатиями клавиш - это прослушивание событий. Два события клавиатуры поддерживаются на устройстве клавиатура:

* `pc.EVENT_KEYDOWN`
* `pc.EVENT_KEYUP`

[DOM][3] события клавиатуры реализованы по-разному в разных браузерах, поэтому движок PlayCanvas обеспечивает события объектом `pc.Keyboard`, таким образом Вы можете использовать один код везде. Когда события с клавиатуры запущены, обработчик событий передаёт объект `pc.KeyboardEvent`, который содержит информацию о коде клавиши: нажата ли она, либо отпущена.

Обратите внимание, третьим аргументом в on() мы передаём `this` - сам экземпляр, выполняющий скрипт. Третий аргумент в on()  использует `this` для события обратного вызова, так что мы должны передать его здесь. В противном случае он будет применяться неправильному объекту.

## Коды клавиш

Идентификация того, какая клавиша нажата выполняется использованием кодов клавиш. Это числовые значения, которые соответствуют клавишам на клавиатуре. Например, pc.KEY_A это  кнопка `A` , pc.LEFT - это стрелка влево.

Обратите внимание, что Вы всегда должны использовать перечисления `pc.KEY_*` вместо использования числовых значений. Настоящее значение этих констант может измениться в будущем.

## Попробуйте

Проверьте полноэкранный режим [здесь][2]  или в начале страницы. Сравните нажатия и удержания стрелок на клавиатуре с нажатием и удержанием клавиши пробел.

[1]: https://playcanvas.com/project/186/overview/tutorials
[2]: http://apps.playcanvas.com/playcanvas/tutorials/input_keyboard
[3]: /user-manual/glossary#dom

Commit message:

Update all translations for new tutorials

content/ru/tutorials/legacy/beginner/keyboard-input.md, after:

---
title: Basic Keyboard Input
template: tutorial-page-legacy.tmpl.html
position: 1
---

<iframe src="http://apps.playcanvas.com/playcanvas/tutorials/input_keyboard?overlay=false"></iframe>

*Click to focus, then press `left arrow`, `right arrow` and `spacebar` to rotate the cube. Press and release the 'a' key to change color.*

Keyboard handling in the PlayCanvas engine is provided by the `pc.Keyboard` object. The Keyboard object provides a simple interface
for common keyboard operations like checking if a key is pressed or held down. It also takes away the various cross-browser problems with
handling keycodes and charcodes.

Take a look at the keyboard input Scene in the [tutorials project][1]. Here is the code for the tutorial:

~~~javascript~~~
pc.script.create("keyboard_handler", function (app) {

    var KeyboardHandler = function (entity) {
        this.entity = entity;
    };

    KeyboardHandler.prototype = {
        initialize: function () {
            // Use on() to listen for events on the keyboard device.
            // Arguments are:
            // 1) The event name to listen for
            // 2) The callback function to call when the event fires
            // 3) (optional) The value to use for 'this' in the callback function
            app.keyboard.on(pc.EVENT_KEYDOWN, this.onKeyDown, this);
            app.keyboard.on(pc.EVENT_KEYUP, this.onKeyUp, this);

            this.redMaterial = app.assets.find("Red", pc.asset.ASSET_MATERIAL);
            this.whiteMaterial = app.assets.find("White", pc.asset.ASSET_MATERIAL);
        },

        update: function (dt) {
            /*
             * Notice in the demo that pressing and holding the arrow keys doesn't
             * make the block spin. wasPressed() is used to detect a
             * keypress that occurred since the last frame and will only be
             * called once even if the key is held down.
             */
            var angle = 0;
            if (app.keyboard.wasPressed(pc.KEY_LEFT)) {
                angle = -5;
            } else if (app.keyboard.wasPressed(pc.KEY_RIGHT)) {
                angle = 5;
            }

            /*
             * Notice that pressing and holding the space bar makes the block
             * continuously spin. isPressed() is used to detected if a
             * key is down right now. So it will be true every frame as long as
             * the key is still pressed.
             */
            if (app.keyboard.isPressed(pc.KEY_SPACE)) {
                angle = 1;
            }

            // Update the spinning cube
            this.entity.rotateLocal(0, angle, 0);
        },

        /*
        * Event handler called when key is pressed
        */
        onKeyDown: function (event) {
            // Check event.key to detect which key has been pressed
            if (event.key === pc.KEY_A) {
                this.entity.model.materialAsset = this.redMaterial;
            }

            // When the space bar is pressed this scrolls the window.
            // Calling preventDefault() on the original browser event stops this.
            event.event.preventDefault();
        },

        /*
        * Event handler called when key is released
        */
        onKeyUp: function (event) {
            // Check event.key to detect which key has been pressed
            if (event.key === pc.KEY_A) {
                this.entity.model.materialAsset = this.whiteMaterial;
            }
        },
    };

    return KeyboardHandler;
});
~~~

There are two ways of detecting keyboard input. The first is done in the update method of your scripts. Use `isPressed()` and `wasPressed()` and check whether a key is currently pressed or has just been pressed. The second uses events to respond to a key press or release as it happens.

## `isPressed` vs `wasPressed`

In the demo above you can see the difference in behaviour between `isPressed()` and `wasPressed()`.

When you press and hold the left or right arrow keys the cube will rotate by 5&deg;, but it will only rotate once. This is because `wasPressed()` only returns true for the frame immediately after the key was pressed.

If you press and hold the spacebar you will see that the cube rotates continuously by 1&deg; per frame. This is because `isPressed()` returns true for every frame in which the key is pressed.

### `isPressed(key)`

`isPressed(key)` checks to see if `key` is currently pressed and returns true if it is. It will return true for every frame while the key is pressed.

### `wasPressed(key)`

`wasPressed(key)` checks to see if `key` was pressed *since the last frame*. `wasPressed()` will only return true once for a single key press.

## Events

The second method of handling key presses is to listen for events. Two keyboard events are supported on the Keyboard device:

* `pc.EVENT_KEYDOWN`
* `pc.EVENT_KEYUP`

[DOM][3] keyboard events are implemented differently on different browsers so the PlayCanvas Engine provides events on the `pc.Keyboard` object so you can use the same code everywhere. When the keyboard events are fired the event handler is passed a `pc.KeyboardEvent` object which contains the key code of the key that was pressed on released.

Notice we are also passing a third argument to on(), which is `this` or the Script Instance itself. The third argument to on() is used as `this` in the event callbacks, so we need to pass it in here, otherwise it won't be set to the correct object.

## Key Codes

Identifying which key is pressed is done using key codes. These are numerical values which match up to a key on the keyboard. For example, pc.KEY_A is the `A` key, pc.LEFT is the left arrow key.

Note, you should always use the enumeration `pc.KEY_*` rather than using numerical values. As the actual value of these constants may change in the future.

## Try it out

Try it out in full screen [here][2] or at the top of the page. Compare tapping and holding the arrow keys, and tapping and holding the spacebar.

[1]: https://playcanvas.com/project/186/overview/tutorials
[2]: http://apps.playcanvas.com/playcanvas/tutorials/input_keyboard
[3]: /user-manual/glossary#dom
